>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT DEFENDS
A NUCLEAR DEAL WITH IRAN,
BRACING FOR A TOUGH FIGHT IN
CONGRESS OVER THE LANDMARK PACT.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY: THE
NEW HORIZONS SPACE PROBE PHONES
HOME-- PHOTOS REVEAL PLUTO'S
ICY FACE.
>> Ifill: PLUS:
>> THE REASON I'M RUNNING, THIS
COUNTRY IS IN CRISIS.
>> Ifill: HE'S RUNNING:
REPUBLICAN SENATOR TED CRUZ ON
POLITICS INSIDE WASHINGTON,
TACKLING IMMIGRATION AND HIS BID
FOR THE PRESIDENCY.
>> A REPUBLICAN, DEMOCRAT,
INDEPENDENT, LIBERTARIAN, I'LL
COMPROMISE WITH MARTIANS IF
THEY'RE WILLING TO SLINK THE
SIZE AND POWER OF THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT.
>> Woodruff: AND, AN EPIDEMIC OF
VIOLENCE IN THE CONGO.
JUSTICE UNMET, STIGMA PERSISTS,
THE CHALLENGES-- BODY AND
SPIRIT-- FOR SURVIVORS OF RAPE
AND SEXUAL SLAVERY.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE IRANIAN NUCLEAR
WEAPONS AGREEMENT DOMINATED
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S NEWS
CONFERENCE TODAY AT THE WHITE
HOUSE.
HE TOOK ON CRITICS-- AT HOME AND
ABROAD-- AND APPEALED TO
CONGRESS FOR ITS SUPPORT.
WE'LL HEAR SOME OF WHAT HE SAID-
- AND TALK WITH MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS-- AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT ALSO
WEIGHED IN ON BILL COSBY DURING
THE NEWS CONFERENCE.
COURT DOCUMENTS NOW SHOW THE
ACTOR/COMEDIAN ADMITTED HE
OBTAINED QUAALUDES TO DRUG WOMEN
FOR SEX.
SINCE THAT REVELATION, SOME HAVE
CALLED FOR COSBY'S PRESIDENTIAL
MEDAL OF FREEDOM TO BE REVOKED.
MR.BAMA O SAID THERE'S NO
MECHANISM FOR REVOKING A MEDAL
OF FREEDOM, BUT HE TOLD
REPORTERS IN THE EAST ROOM, THE
LARGER ALLEGATIONS ARE CLEAR.
>> IF YOU GIVE A WOMAN OR A MAN,
FOR THAT MATTER, WITHOUT HIS OR
HER KNOWLEDGE A DRUG AND THEN
HAVE SEX WITH THAT PERSON
WITHOUT CONSENT, THAT'S RAPE.
AND I THINK THIS COUNTRY, ANY
CIVILIZED COUNTRY, SHOULD HAVE
NO TOLERANCE FOR RAPE.
>> Ifill: FORMER PRESIDENT
GEORGE W. BUSH AWARDED THE MEDAL
OF FREEDOM TO COSBY IN 2002.
>> Woodruff: FOR THE FIRST TIME,
THE LEADER OF THE AFGHAN
TALIBAN-- MULLAH OMAR-- HAS
ENDORSED PEACE TALKS WITH KABUL.
THE WRITTEN STATEMENT WAS POSTED
ONLINE TODAY.
IN IT, THE RECLUSIVE LEADER DOES
NOT DIRECTLY MENTION TALKS HELD
LAST WEEK IN PAKISTAN.
INSTEAD, HE SAYS:
>> Ifill: IN YEMEN, MILITIA
FIGHTERS ALLIED WITH THE
GOVERNMENT RECAPTURED MORE
GROUND TODAY IN THE STRATEGIC
PORT CITY OF ADEN.
IT'S THEIR FIRST MAJOR ADVANCE
SINCE SHIITE REBELS SEIZED THE
CITY BACK IN MARCH.
BATTLES RAGED IN SEVERAL
NEIGHBORHOODS AS MILITIA
FIGHTERS-- INCLUDING MANY IN
ARMORED VEHICLES-- PRESSED THEIR
OFFENSIVE.
THEY'RE BACKED BY SAUDI ARABIA
AND OTHER GULF ARAB STATES.
>> Woodruff: A GERMAN MAN IN HIS
90'S WAS CONVICTED TODAY OF
BEING AN ACCESSORY TO THE MURDER
OF 300,000 JEWS-- AT THE NAZIS'
AUSCHWITZ DEATH CAMP.
JULIET BREMNER OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS" REPORTS ON THE
VERDICT HANDED DOWN IN A GERMAN
COT.UR
>> Reporter: A FRAIL 94-YEAR-OLD
OSCAR GROENING ADMITS HIS "MORAL
GUILT."
TODAY A GERMAN COURT DECIDED
NEITHER HIS AGE NOR HIS
WILLINGNESS TO SPEAK OF HIS NAZI
PAST COULD ABSOLVE HIM OF HIS
CRIMES.
HE WAS ONLY 21 WHEN HE WORKED AS
A GUARD AT AUSCHWITZ, BUT NOW
ADMITS HE KNEW WHAT WAS
HAPPENING THERE.
HIS JOB AT THE CONCENTRATION
CAMP WAS TO COUNT THE MONEY
CONFISCATED FROM PRISONERS, HE
BECAME KNOWN AS THE BOOKMAKER.
AMONGST HOLOCAUST SURVIVORS WHO
MEET REGULARLY IN NORTH LONDON,
ONE MAN-- IVOR PERL-- AGREED TO
GO BACK TO GERMANY AND TESTIFY
AGAINST GROENING.
>> I LOOKED AROUND TO SEE AN OLD
MAN WALKING AND SUDDENLY I
THOUGHT TO MYSELF, WAIT A
MINUTE, I FEEL PITY FOR THAT
MAN.
AND I EXPECTED TO HATE HIM.
>> Reporter: HE WAS 12 YEARS OLD
WHEN HE AND HIS FAMILY OF 11
WERE TAKEN TO AUSCHWITZ, JUST
TWO SURVIVED.
BUT HE TOLD ME THAT HE WAS NOT
SEEKING REVENGE FOR THE CRIMES.
ALTHOUGH HE WAS GIVEN A FOUR
YEAR SENTENCE, IT IS UNCERTAIN
GROENING WILL EVER ACTUALLY BE
SENT TO JAIL.
>> Woodruff: NEWS OF TODAY'S
CONVICTION CAME AS ANOTHER
FORMER AUSCHWITZ GUARD-- ALSO IN
HIS 90'S-- WAS INDICTED AS
ACCESSORY TO MURDER.
>> Ifill: U.S. AUTHORITIES AND
INVESTIGATORS FROM 20 COUNTRIES
SAY THEY'VE SHUT DOWN ONE OF THE
LARGEST ONLINE FORUMS FOR CYBER-
CRIMINALS.
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT ANNOUNCED
TODAY THAT "DARKODE" SERVED AS A
MARKETPLACE FOR BUYING STOLEN
DATA AND MALICIOUS SOFTWARE.
U.S. ATTORNEY DAVID HICKTON MADE
THE ANNOUNCEMENT IN PITTSBURGH,
WHERE THE F.B.I HAS A LARGE
CYBER-CRIME UNIT.
>> OF THE ROUGHLY 800 CRIMINAL
INTERNET FORUMS WORLDWIDE, THIS
REPRESENTED ONE OF THE GRAVIST
THREATS OF INTEGRITY TO DATA IN
THE UNITED STATES AND AROUND THE
WORLD AND THE MOST SOPHISTICATED
ENGLISH SPEAKING FORUM FOR
CRIMINAL COMPUTER HACKERS IN THE
WORLD.
>> Ifill: THE ROUNDUP IS
TARGETING MORE 70 SUSPECTS
WORLDWIDE.
>> Woodruff: AND ON WALL STREET,
STOCKS MOSTLY MARKED TIME TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST THREE POINTS TO CLOSE AT
18,050.
THE NASDAQ FELL ABOUT SIX
POINTS, AND THE S&P 500 SLIPPED
A SINGLE POINT.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
LAWMAKERS DEBATE THE IRAN
NUCLEAR ARMS AGREEMENT-- WILL
THEY GIVE THE PRESIDENT THE
SUPPORT HE SEEKS?
REACTION FROM TEHRAN WHERE THE
GOVERNMENT HAS CLAMPED DOWN ON
PUBLIC CELEBRATIONS OF THE DEAL,
A DETAILED PORTRAIT OF THE DWARF
PLANET PLUTO COMES INTO FOCUS,
REPUBLICAN SENATOR TED CRUZ ON
COMPROMISE, IMMIGRATION AND HIS
BID FOR THE PRESIDENCY, GREECE
IN TURMOIL OVER CONDITIONS FOR A
EUROPEAN BAILOUT AND CONFRONTING
A CULTURE OF VIOLENCE IN THE
AFTERMATH OF WAR.
>> Ifill: THE ADMINISTRATION
WENT ALL OUT TODAY TO SELL THE
FRESHLY-SIGNED IRAN NUCLEAR
AGREEMENT TO CONGRESS AND TO THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC.
PRESIDENT OBAMA LED THE
OFFENSIVE, APPEARING AT A WHITE
HOUSE NEWS CONFERENCE THAT
LASTED MORE THAN AN HOUR.
AND WHEN HE DIDN'T GET THE
QUESTIONS HE WANTED, HE ASKED
THEM HIMSELF.
>> I'M REALLY ENJOYING THIS IRAN
DEBATE.
>> Ifill: WITH THE INK ON THE
DEAL BARELY DRY, THE PRESIDENT
USED AN EXTENDED SESSION WITH
THE WHITE HOUSE PRESS CORPS TO
MAKE HIS CASE.
>> I CAN SAY WITH CONFIDENCE,
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY NUCLEAR
EXPERTS CAN SAY WITH CONFIDENCE
THAT IRAN WILL NOT BE IN A
POSITION TO DEVELOP A NUCLEAR
BOMB.
WE WILL HAVE MET OUR NUMBER ONE
PRIORITY.
AND MY HOPE IS THAT BUILDING ON
THIS DEAL, WE CAN CONTINUE TO
HAVE CONVERSATIONS WITH IRAN
THAT INCENTIVIZE THEM TO BEHAVE
DIFFERENTLY IN THE REGION, TO BE
LESS AGGRESSIVE, LESS HOSTILE,
BUT WE'RE NOT COUNTING ON IT.
>> Ifill: HOURS EAIER,RL THE
IRANIAN NEGOTIATING TEAM
RETURNED TO TEHRAN, TRIUMPHANT.
>> (translated): THANKS
TO
TO GOD, THE ENRICHMENT OF
URANIUM
GOD, THE ENRICHMENT OF URANIUM
THE MAIN PART OF OUR NUCLEAR
ACTIVITIES, HAS BEEN RECOGNIZED.
THIS IS A BIG THING.
THE NUCLEAR ACTIVISM OF IRAN
WILL NOT BE DECREASED BUT WILL
BE INCREASED.
>> Ifill: BUT THAT SORT OF
RHETORICAL VICTORY LAP HAS
ENRAGED CRITICS OF THE DEAL,
ESPECIALLY IN ISRAEL, WHERE THE
INTELLIGENCE MINISTER MOCKED THE
U.S.-LED COALITION THAT
NEGOTIATED THE DEAL.
>> Ifill: AT THE WHITE HOUSE
TODAY, THE PRESIDENT TOOK ALL
SUCH CHARGES HEAD ON.
>> YOU'LL HEAR SOME CRITICS SAY,
"WELL, WE COULD HAVE NEGOTIATED
A BETTER DEAL."
OKAY.
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
I THINK THE SUGGESTION AMONG A
LOT OF THE CRITICS HAS BEEN THAT
A BETTER DEAL, AN ACCEPTABLE
DEAL WOULD BE ONE IN WHICH IRAN
HAS NO NUCLEAR CAPACITY AT ALL,
PEACEFUL OR OTHERWISE.
>> Ifill: HE ARGUED THAT
COMPLETELY DENYING IRAN NUCLEAR
CAPACITY WAS NEVER POSSIBLE, AND
HE AGAIN FRAMED THE DEBATE AS A
CHOICE BETWEEN THIS DEAL OR THE
PROSPECT OF WAR.
>> I CHALLENGE THOSE WHO ARE
OBJECTING TO THIS AGREEMENT,
NUMBER ONE TO READ THE AGREEMENT
BEFORE THEY COMMENT ON IT,
NUMBER TWO TO EXPLAIN
SPECIFICALLY WHERE IT IS THAT
THEY THINK THIS AGREEMENT DOES
NOT PREVENT IRAN FROM GETTING A
NUCLEAR WEAPON, AND WHY THEY'RE
RIGHT.
AND THEN PRESENT AN ALTERNATIVE.
AND IF THE ALTERNATIVE IS THAT
WE SHOULD BRING IRAN TO HEEL
THROUGH MILITARY FORCE, THEN
THOSE CRITICS SHOULD SAY SO.
>> Ifill: BUT, HE WAS ASKED,
WHAT IF IRAN CHEATS?
WHAT WOULD THE U.S. AND ITS
ALLIES DO THEN?
>> ONE OF THE ADVANTAGES OF
HAVING INSPECTIONS ACROSS THE
ENTIRE PRODUCTION CHAIN IS THAT
IT MAKES IT VERY DIFFICULT TO
SET UP A COVERT PROGRAM.
YOU KNOW, THERE ARE ONLY SO MANY
URANIUM MINES IN IRAN.
AND IF IN FACT WE'RE COUNTING
THE AMOUNT OF URANIUM THAT'S
BEING MINED, AND SUDDENLY SOME
IS MISSING ON THE BACK END, THEY
GOT SOME 'SPLAININ' TO DO.
>> Ifill: BUT MR. OBAMA WAS
VISIBLY ANNOYED WHEN REPORTER
MAJOR GARRRET OF C.B.S SUGGESTED
HE WAS "CONTENT" TO LEAVE FOUR
AMERICANS HELD HOSTAGE IN IRAN
OUT OF THE DEAL.
>> THE NOTION THAT I AM CONTENT
AS I CELEBRATE WITH AMERICAN
CITIZENS LANGUISHING IN IRANIAN
JAILS, MAJOR, THAT'S NONSENSE,
AND YOU SHOULD KNOW BETTER.
NOW, IF THE QUESTION IS WHY WE
DID NOT TIE THE NEGOTIATIONS TO
THEIR RELEASE, THINK ABOUT THE
LOGIC THAT THAT CREATES.
SUDDENLY, IRAN REALIZES YOU KNOW
WHAT?
MAYBE WE CAN GET ADDITIONAL
CONCESSIONS OUT OF THE AMERICANS
BY HOLDING THESE INDIVIDUALS.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT ALSO
FACES SKEPTICISM IN CONGRESS,
AND TODAY, VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN
WENT TO THE CAPITOL TO BEGIN
SELLING THE IRAN DEAL IN
CONGRESS, ESPECIALLY TO HOUSE
DEMOCRATS.
>> Woodruff: ATTENTION DOES NOW
SHIFT TO CONGRESS, WHICH WILL
HAVE 60 DAYS, STARTING NEXT
WEEK, TO CONDUCT ITS OWN REVIEW.
JOINING ME NOW ARE TWO LAWMAKERS
WHO SERVE ON THE SENATE FOREIGN
RELATIONS COMMITTEE.
REPUBLICAN SENATOR JOHNNY
ISAKSON OF GEORGIA AND
DEMOCRATIC SENATOR TIM KAINE OF
VIRGINIA.
AND WE WELCOME YOU BOTH TO THE
PROGRAM.
SENATOR ISAKSON, TO YOU FIRST,
YOU HAD A CHANCE TO LOOK AT THIS
AGREEMENT.
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF IT SO FAR?
WHAT ARE YOU COMFORTABLE WITH?
WHAT ARE YOUR CONCERNS?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, I'M ON
PAGE 3 OF 158 PAGES, SO I'VE GOT
A WAYS TO GO.
I HAVE BEEN TO A NUMBER OF
BRIEFINGS.
I'VE LISTENED TO THE PRESIDENT.
I'M SKEPTICAL AND CONCERNED
PARTICULARLY ABOUT A COUPLE OF
FACTORS.
ONE IS AFTER FIVE YEARS WE LIFT
THE CONVENTIONAL ARMS EMBARGO ON
THE IRANIANS AND THEY WILL BE
BACK IN THE ARMS SHIPPING
BUSINESS IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
ARMS THAT WILL PROBABLY BE USED
AGAINST ISRAELIS AND AMERICANS
PEACE KEEPERS.
SECONDLY, THE FORDOW FACILITY,
THE UNDERGROUND BUNKERED
FACILITY, THE MOST ADVANCED
FACILITY WILL BE OPENED TO
ENRICHED URANIUM AND WEAPONS
GRADE MATERIALS AFTER THE 15t
15th YEAR, AND THERE ARE A
NUMBER OF THRESHOLDS FROM YEAR
8.5, 10 AND 12 WHICH MEANS THEY
WILL PROBABLY HAVE A BOMB WITHIN
15 YEARS.
>> Woodruff: SENATOR KAINE,
WHAT ABOUT YOU?
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF THIS
AGREEMENT AT THIS POINT?
>> WELL, JUDY, WHAT I'M TRYING
TO DO IS TWO THINGS, TO
DETERMINE HOW THE AGREEMENT
MATCHES WITH THE APRIL 2
FRAMEWORK, BECAUSE I THINK IF IT
MATCHES THE APRIL 2 FRAMEWORK
AND THERE IS A SOLID
VERIFICATION DAN INSPECTION
REGIME, IT WILL BE GOOD FOR OUR
NATIONAL SECURITY.
JUST ONE POINT, THIS IS A
REDUCTION OF THE URANIUM
STOCKPILE IRAN HAS BY 98%.
THEY HAVE 10,000 KILOGRAMS, WILL
REDUCE IT TO LESS THAN 300 AND
CAP IT.
I'VE HEARD NOBODY ELSE A PLAN TO
GET IRAN TO GIVE UP 98% OF THEIR
ENRICHED URANIUM STOCKPILE.
THAT'S A POSITIVE.
I HAVE QUESTIONS.
SOME SANCTIONS ARE LIFTED, SOME
REMAIN IN PLACE.
HOW THOSE INTERPLAY IS A
COMPLICATED QUESTION AND THAT'S
ONE OF THE REASONS WE NEED TO
TAKE THE 60 DAYS TO ASK THE
QUESTIONS.
BUT THERE ARE POSITIVES ABOUT
CENTRIFUGES AND URANIUM AND
QUESTIONS I WANT TO DIG INTO TO.
>> Woodruff: SENATOR ISAKSON,
WE HEARD SENATOR KAINE TALK
ABOUT CENTRIFUGES ARE CUT BACK
IN NUMBER, THE AMOUNT OF
ENRICHED URANIUM IRAN WOULD BE
ABLE TO HOLD ON TO IS
DRASTICALLY REDUCED.
WHY IS THAT NOT REASSURING TO
YOU?
>> IT'S REASSURING THAT IT SLOWS
DOWN THE PROCESS THEY'VE MADE
BUT ALSO GIVES THEM INCREMENTAL
STEMS BETWEEN YEAR 1 AND 15 TO
BE BACK WHERE THEY WERE BEFORE.
THE BEST DAY OF THE TREATY FOR
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
APPEARS TO BE THE FIRST DAY, AND
THE BEST DAY FOR THE IRANIANS
APPEAR TO BE AFTER THAT BECAUSE
SANCTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS ARE
LIFTED.
I WILL HAVE TO READ THE DETAILS,
BUT A NUCLEAR ARMED IRAN SUN
ACCEPTABLE TO ME, A GNARL
PROLIFERATION RACE IN THE MIDDLE
EAST SUN ACCEPTABLE TO ME, AND
IF WE'RE MAKING IT EASIER FOR
EAT BURN OF THOSE TWO THINGS TO
HAPPEN, I AM RELUCTANT TO BE
SUPPORTED.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THE
POINT SENATOR ISAKSON IS
RAISING?
THE PRESIDENT SAID AT HIS NEWS
CONFERENCE TODAY THAT DURING
THIS 8, 1015-YEAR PERIOD, THE
U.S. WILL BE MONITORING VERY
CLOSELY WHAT IRAN DOES AND THAT
EVERYTHING THEY DO WILL BE
VISIBLE, EVEN IF THEY TRY TO DO
SOMETHING IN A COVERT MANNER,
THERE WILL BE AN ABILITY ON THE
PART OF THE U.S. AND ITS
PARTNERS TO STOP IT.
>> I THINK THE SENATOR'S PUT HIS
FINGER ON A GOOD POINT THAT I
WOULD TURN AROUND AND ARGUE AS A
POSITIVE.
HIS CONCERN WAS WILL WE GET TO
THE END OF 15 YEARS AND IRAN
MIGHT BE CLOSE TO A NUCLEAR
WEAPON?
THEY WERE MONTHS AWAY FROM IT IN
2013, AND THE INTERIM
NEGOTIATION WHICH MANY SAID WAS
A HORRIBLE, HISTORIC MISTAKE, A
BIG GIVEAWAY TO IRAN, EARNED UP
SLOWING AND EVEN ROLLING BACK
THEIR PROGRAM.
CAN YOU IMAGINE A POINT AT YEAR
15 OR 25 WHERE THEY MIGHT DO
SOMETHING BAD?
YES, YOU COULD, AND THAT'S WHY
VERIFICATION IS IMPORTANT.
REMEMBER WE WERE AT THAT POINT
TWO YEARS AGO.
I THINK THE CRITICS IMPLILS
ITALY EKE KNOWLEDGE THEIR
CONCERN FOR 10 OR 15 YEARS DOWN
THE ROAD.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT HAS
BROUGHT A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF
PEACE FOR THE WORLD.
WE'VE GOT TO LOOK INTO IT AND
ASK THESE QUESTIONS, ESPECIALLY
ABOUT THE VERIFICATION, BECAUSE
THAT'S GOING TO HAVE TO SATISFY
ME TO GO WITH THIS DEAL.
IF IT DOES, YOU WILL SEE THIS
ROLLBACK OVER A SIGNIFICANT
PERIOD OF TIME, AND THAT WAS
DRAMATICALLY BETTER THAN THE
STATUS QUO ANTE, WHICH IS IN THE
U.S.'S AROUND THE OTHERS' AS
WELL.
>> Woodruff: SENATOR ISAKSON,
ANOTHER POINT WE HEARD THE
PRESIDENT MAKE TODAY IS TO
BELIEVE THAT IRAN IS PREPARED TO
GIVE UP ITS NUCLEAR AMBITIONS
ALTOGETHER IS NOT -- I'M NOT
QUOTING HIM, BUT, IN EFFECT,
HE'S SAYING IT'S WISHFUL
THINKING, THAT THIS IS A COUNTRY
THAT HAS COME A LONG WAY IN ITS
NUCLEAR PROGRAM AND THAT WHAT
THIS AGREEMENT DOES IS STOP THAT
IN A SIGNIFICANT WAY FOR A
PERIOD OF TIME THAT THEN GIVES
IRAN A CHANCE TO TURN IN OTHER
DIRECTIONS.
IS THAT AN ARGUMENT THAT COULD
BE PERSUASIVE, DO YOU THINK, TO
YOU AND OTHER REPUBLICANS?
>> WELL, GOING BACK TO WHAT TIM
JUST SAID A MINUTE AGO,
VERIFICATION IS GOING TO BE A
HUGE ISSUE TO BE ABLE TO SUPPORT
THAT THE IRANIANS ARE DOING WHAT
THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO DO.
I WAS PART OF THE NEW STARK
TREATY, TIM WAS, TOO.
WE HAVE GREAT DEAL OF
VERIFICATIONS FROM THE RUSSIANS
IN THAT.
24 DAYS' NOTICE IS A PROBLEM FOR
ME.
I WANT TO BE ABLE TO VERIFY AND
DO SO CORRECTLY.
THE IRANIANS HAVEN'T BEEN PROVEN
TO BE HONEST BROKERS IN DEALING
WITH THEM FOR A LONG TIME IF WE
DON'T HAVE GOOD TYPE PROTECTION,
WE'RE IN TROUBLE.
ANOTHER THING, IN THE NEXT 90
DAYS, THE I.A.E.A. HAS TO BE
SATISFIED.
IF THEY CERTIFY THEY'RE
SATISFIED THE U.N. AND E.U.
IMMEDIATELY LIFT THEIR SANCTIONS
AGAINST THE IRANIANS AND
PRESIDENT OBAMA WILL SIGN A
NATIONAL SECURITY WAIVE TORE
LIFT OURS.
THEY GET EVERYTHING THEY WANT
WITHIN 90 DAYS OF SIGNING AN
AGREEMENT.
WE'RE HOPING TO PROTRACT A
PROBLEM FOR 15 YEARS, THAT'S NOT
A DEAL.
>> Woodruff: INTER KAINE.
IN NOVEMBER OF 2013 THEY HAD
20,000 CENTRIFUGES AND OVER
10,000 KILOGRAMS OF ENRICHED
URANIUM MUCH OF IT NEAR THE 20%
LEVEL THAT PRIME MINISTER
NETANYAHU SAID WAS THE RED LINE.
THAT'S WHERE THEY WERE AND WERE
ROCKETING AHEAD.
OUR SANCTIONS HURT THEM
ECONOMICALLY BUT ACCELERATED
THEIR NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
NOW THEY'VE ROLLED THE URANIUM
BACK TO LESS THAN 5%, THEY'LL
CAP IT AND GIVE UP 97% OF THEIR
STOCKPILE, THEY'RE GOING TO GIVE
UP TWO-THIRDS OF CENTRIFUGES AND
AGREE TO INSPECTIONS WHICH WE
DIDN'T HAVE BEFORE.
I WANT TO HAVE A CREDIBLE
MILITARY THREAT IF THEY EVER
BREAK TOWARD A NUCLEAR WEAPON.
PART OF A MILITARY THREAT IS
HAVING INSPECTIONS THAT GIVE YOU
INTEL ABOUT WHERE THEIR PROGRAM
IS.
WE'RE GETTING ALL THIS THAT WE
DIDN'T HAVE BEFORE THE
NEGOTIATION, AND, AGAIN, WE'VE
GOT TO DIG INTO THE DETAILS.
I WANT TO TAKE THE FULL 60 DAYS.
I WAS A CO-AUTHOR OF THE REVIEW
BILL WITH SENATOR CORKER.
WE'VE GOT TO DIG IN, BUT WE HAVE
A LOT WE DIDN'T HAVE BEFORE THE
DIPLOMATIC EFFORT STARTED.
>> SENATOR ISAKSON, THIS
INSPECTIONS AGREEMENT GIVES THE
UNITED STATES AND OTHER
COUNTRIES EYES INTO IRAN THAT WE
DO NOT -- THAT THE REST OF THE
WORLD DOES NOT HAVE NOW.
I FINALLY WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT
THE PRESIDENT'S POINT TODAY THAT
THE ALTERNATIVE TO A DEAL LIKE
THIS OR TO THIS DEAL IS TO
INCREASE THE LIKELIHOOD OF WAR
IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
DO YOU SEE THAT AS THE OTHER
OPTION?
WHAT IS THE ALTERNATIVE IF THIS
DEAL IS THE WRONG ANSWER?
>> YOU KNOW, I WAS IN BUSINESS
FOR A LONG, LONG PERIOD OF TIME,
AND THE BEST DEALS I EVER MADE
WERE THE ONES I WALKED AWAY FROM
AND THE OTHER SIDE ASKED ME
BACK.
IT BOTHERS ME HOW MUCH WE'VE
GIVEN UP SANCTIONS AT THE
BEGINNING, HOW MUCH WE'VE GIVEN
UP IN TERMS OF OUR LEVERAGE AND
HOW LITTLE TRUSTWORTHINESS ON
THE PART OF IRAN.
YES THE SANCTIONS HURT THE
PEOPLE OF IRAN BUT WHILE THEY
HAVE BEEN HURT BY THE SANCTIONS,
THE IRANIAN GOVERNMENT CONTINUED
TO ENRICH URANIUM, WORK ON A
BOMB AND MILITARY, THAT SHOWS
THEIR PRIORITY, AND WE HAVE TO
MAKE SURE THAT BOMB IS THWARTED
IN EVERY WAY WE CAN.
>> WE HAVE TO LOOK AT THE
ALTERNATIVES.
THEY'RE NOT PRETTY.
SENATOR COTTON SAID A WAR
AGAINST IRAN WILL ONLY TAKE A
COUPLE OF DAYS.
OKAY, THAT'S AN ALTERNATIVE.
BUT I THINK IF YOU LOOK AT THE
ALTERNATIVES ON THE TABLE,
INSPECTIONS WE DIDN'T HAVE
BEFORE, A DRAMATIC ROLLBACK OF
ENRICHED URANIUM WE DIDN'T HAVE
BEFORE, A REDUCTION IN
CENTRIFUGES WE DIDN'T HAVE
BEFORE AND A SERIES OF OTHER
PROVISIONS, IF THE ANALYSIS OF
THE DETAILS BEARS THAT OUT, YOU
KNOW, I THINK IT COULD BE VERY,
VERY GOOD FOR AMERICA'S NATIONAL
SECURITY.
WE'VE GOT TO MAKE SURE THE DEAL
DOES WHAT THE TALKING POINT SAYS
IT DOES.
>> Woodruff: SENATOR TIM
KAINE, SENATOR JOHNNY ISAKSON,
WE KNOW THIS IS JUST THE
BEGINNING OF THE EXAMINATION OF
THAT DEAL.
WE THANK YOU FOR TALKING WITH
US.
>> THANK YOU.
ABSOLUTELY.
>> Ifill: AS U.S. CRITICS OF THE
NUCLEAR AGREEMENT DEBATE ITS
MERITS, THERE IS DISAGREEMENT
ABOUT WHETHER IT WILL ACHIEVE
ITS INTENDED GOALS ELSEWHERE AS
WELL, INCLUDING IN IRAN.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THAT STORY.
>> Brown: WHILE MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS DEBATED THE MERITS OF
THE NUCLEAR DEAL WITH IRAN, THE
REACTION IN TEHRAN HAS BEEN
MIXED.
IN THE GOVERNMENT, HARD-LINERS
HAVE NOT COME OUT AGAINST THE
NEW AGREEMENT WHILE OUT ON THE
STREETS THERE HAVE BEEN POCKETS
OF CELEBRATIONS.
I SPOKE TO "NEW YORK TIMES"
TEHRAN BUREAU CHIEF THOMAS
ERDBRINK A SHORT TIME AGO.
THOMAS ERDBRINK, WELCOME.
LET'S START IN THE STREETS.
WERE THERE REACTION FROM
ORDINARY IRANIANS SEEMS TO HAVE
BEEN SOMEWHAT MUTED?
>> WELL, A BIT MORE MUTED THAN I
EXPECTED, FOR SURE.
I MEAN, YOU MUST CONSIDER THE
FACT THAT THESE PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
LIVING UNDER THE SANCTIONS FOR
YEARS, NOW, AND A LOT OF PEOPLE
EXPECTED A MASSIVE STREET PARTY,
IF YOU WILL, YESTERDAY NIGHT
WHEN THE NEWS OF THE NUCLEAR
DEAL WAS ANNOUNCED.
BUT IT DIDN'T HAPPEN.
THERE WERE SEVERAL POCKETS OF
JUBILATIONIF , YOU WILL, ACROSS
TOWRNTION AND A LOT OF PEOPLE
WERE OUT IN THEIR CARS.
BUT WHEN YOU SPOKE TO THEM, WHEN
YOU ASKED THEM, ARE YOU REALLY
HAPPY?
THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE WITH
DOUBTS.
SOME PEOPLE SAID MAYBE WE HAVE
GIVEN UP OUR NUCLEAR PLAN TOO
EASILY.
MAYBE WE HAVEN'T NEGOTIATED
ENOUGH.
ANOTHER SAYS, YOU KNOW WHAT?
WHY HAVE WE SUFFERED SO MUCH FOR
12 YEARS, ONLY FOR OUR LEADERS
NOW TO MAKE A DEAL WITH THE
UNITED STATES.
SO THERE WAS A MIXED PICTURE ON
THE STREETS LAST NIGHT.
PEOPLE WERE CONFUSED AND SOME
WERE CRITICAL.
>> THERE WERE EVEN REPORTS OF
POLICE SHOWING UP TO TAMP DOWN
SOME OF THE CELEBRATIONS THAT
WERE HAPPENING.
>> WELL, I THINK OFTEN IN IRAN
WHEN YOU GET A SORT OF
SEMI-SPONTANEOUS GATHERING, SOME
OF THE AUTHORITIES GET NERVOUS
AND, IN THE CASE OF ONE OF THE
SQUARES WHERE I WAS PRESIDENT,
PEOPLE STARTED SHOUTING SLOGANS
IN FAVOR OF THE OPPOSITION
LEADERS.
AT THAT POINT, THE POLICE CAME
OUT AND SORT OF DISPERSED
PEOPLE, ONLY FOR THEM TO LATER
BE ALLOWED TO AGAIN REJOIN.
THERE WATHERE WASN'T A VERY TENE
SITUATION.
OVERALL, PEOPLE WERE JUBILANT,
HONKING THEIR CARS, THEY WERE
HAPPY, BUT, YES, THERE WERE
SIGNS OF CRITICISM IN THE FORM
OF SUPPORT FOR THE OPPOSITION
LEADERS THAT ARE UNDER HOUSE
ARREST.
ONE OF THE ELECTION PROMISES OF
PRESIDENT ROUHANI HAS BEEN TO
GET THEM FREED, SO PEOPLE ARE
REMINDING HIM OR THAT FACT AS
WELL.
>> Brown: NOW, JUST AS
PRESIDENT OBAMA FACES A
POLITICAL FIGHT OVER THIS, THERE
ARE HARD LINERS IN IRAN OVER THE
DEAL.
HOW MUCH CLOUT DO THEY HAVE AND
HOW MIGHT THEY GO ABOUT TRYING
TO UNDERCUT IT?
>> WELL, THE PICTURE IS NOT AS
CLEAR-CUT AS IT IS IN THE UNITED
STATES.
IRAN'S HARD LINERS OR
CONSERVATIVES OR HOWEVER YOU
WANT TO LABEL A THEM CONTROL
SEVERAL IMPORTANT POWER CENTERS
IN THE ISLAM REPUBLIC -- STATE
TELEVISION, SECURITY FORCES, A
LARGE PART OF THE ECONOMY.
NOW, THESE PEOPLE HAVE GONE
ALONG WITH THE DEAL BECAUSE
IRAN'S SUPREME LEADER AYATOLLAH
KHAMENEI HAS SORT OF SUPPORTED
THE NEGOTIATIONS.
NOT ONLY IRAN'S HARD LINERS, BUT
BASICALLY EVERYBODY IN THE
COUNTRY IS WAITING FOR WHAT
SUPREME LEADER AYATOLLAH
KHAMENEI WILL SAY, AND THE FIRST
OPPORTUNITY WILL BE ON SATURDAY
WHEN HE WILL SPEAK MARKING THE
END OF RAMADAN, AND A LOT OF THE
ANALYSTS EXPECT HIM THEN TO ALSO
GIVE EITHER HIS BLESSING FOR THE
NUCLEAR DEAL OR VOICE SOME
CRITICAL POINTS THAT HE MIGHT
HAVE.
>> Brown: YOU'RE SAYING IT
CAN'T BE CONSIDERED A DONE DEAL
FROM AN IRANIAN PERSPECTIVE
UNTIL HE SPEAKS?
>> TECHNICALLY, THIS DEAL IS NOT
SIGNED BY ANY OF THE PARTIES.
JUST AS CONGRESS WILL HAVE A SAY
IN SORT OF AGREEING OR OPPOSING
THIS DEAL, IN IRAN THE
PARLIAMENT WILL ALSO HAVE A SAY
IN WHETHER THIS IS A GOOD DEAL
OR NOT.
THIS IS AN ON SITE DEAL, CALLED
AN AGREEMENT, A PLAN OF ACTION.
SO IT'S NOT THE END TO HAVE THE
STORY AS IRAN'S FOREIGN MINISTER
SAID.
>> Brown: FINALLY, IS THERE A
SENSE AND EXPECTATIONS AMONG
PEOPLE THAT LIFTING SANCTIONS
COULD HAVE A REAL IMPACT IN THE
LIVES OF ORDINARY CITIZENS OR
EVEN PERHAPS LEAD TO SOME
POLITICAL CHANGE THERE?
>> FOR NOW, THIS NEWS IS SINKING
IN SLOWLY.
IRANIANS HAVE BEEN LIVING
THROUGH THIS ROLLERCOASTER OF
NEGOTIATIONS FOR THE PAST 22
MONTHS.
THEY HAVE GONE THROUGH DEADLINE
AFTER DEADLINE AND, BY NOW, A
LOT OF PEOPLE ARE TELLING ME, WE
HAVE TO SEE IT TO BELIEVE IT,
FIRST.
AND IF YOU ASK ME ABOUT
POLITICAL CHANGE, THAT MIGHT BE
HELD BY MANY IN THE WEST THAT
THIS DEAL MIGHT BRING SOME SORT
OF WESTERNIZATION TO IRAN, BUT
IF YOU LISTEN CLOSE TO IRAN'S
LEADERS, YOU WILL CONCLUDE THAT
THEY WILL NOT ALLOW STARBUCKS
AND MCDONALD'S TO OPEN UP HERE
IN THE WAKE OF A BROADER WESTERN
CHANGE.
>> Brown: THOMAS ERDBRINK OF
THE "NEW YORK TIMES," THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: AFTER A THREE-
BILLION-MILE JOURNEY, NASA
FINALLY HAD THE CHANCE TODAY TO
RELEASE THE FIRST EVER CLOSE-UP
PHOTOS OF PLUTO.
THE IMAGES SHOWED MOUNTAINS ON
THE SURFACE AND FEATURES AS
SMALL AS HALF A MILE IN SIZE.
SCIENTISTS SAID THE PICTURES
WERE STUNNING, SURPRISING IN
SOME WAYS AND COULD VERY WELL
CHANGE THE WAY THEY THINK ABOUT
PLUTO AND THAT AREA OF THE SOLAR
SYSTEM.
WHAT'S STRIKING GEOLOGICALLY
IS WE HAVE NOT FOUND A SINGLE
IMPACT AROUND THIS IMAGE.
THIS MEANS THIS IS A VERY YOUNG
SURFACE BECAUSE PLUTO'S BEEN
BOMBARDED BY OBJECTS IN THE
KUIPER BELT AND CREATORS HAPPEN.
JUST EYE BALLING IT, WE THINK
IT'S PROBABLY LESS THAN
100 MILLION YEARS OLD, WHICH IS
A SMALL FRACTION OF THE
4.5 BILLION YEAR OF THE SOLAR
SYSTEM.
MYLES, THIS IS EXCITING.
WHAT DO
SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT MILES
O'BRIEN WAS WATCHING THE PRESS
CONFERENCE TODAY AND JOINS US
FROM BOSTON.
>> A MUCH MORE INTERESTING
FEATURE-FILLED PLACE THAN WE
PROBABLY EXPECTED.
I DON'T KNOW ABOUT YOU, JUDY,
BUT I THOUGHT ABOUT PLUTO AS
BEING THIS DARK, LIFELESS, ICY
BALL, WAY DISTANT IN THE FAR
REACHES OF OUR IMAGINATION.
BUT THE CLOSER WE GET TO PLUTO,
THE MORE INTERESTING THE
FEATURES ARE.
11,000-FOOT PEAKS MADE OF ICE
AND, INTERESTINGLY, A SURFACE
THAT IS NOT POCK MARKED AS OUR
MOON IS, AN INTERESTING CLUE FOR
PLANETARY SCIENTISTS BECAUSE
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE MOON AND
SEE THE CRATER IMPACTS, YOU SAY
THAT'S A DEAD PLANET, NO
GEOLOGIC OR TECTONIC ACTIVITY.
BUT PLUTO AND SHARON, IT'S MOON,
KIND OF A BYNARY SYSTEM ARE
AMAZINGLY CRATER FREE, THAT
MEANS IT'S ACTIVE, MAYBE A
MOLTEN CORE AND WHO KNOWS WHAT
ELSE.
IT'S VERY EXCITING.
>> Woodruff: WHEN YOU SAY ICE
ON THE MOUNTAINS AND SURFACE,
ICE AS WE KNOW IT ON EARTH?
>> WATER ICE APPARENTLY ON PLUTO
AND ON SHARON.
WHAT'S INTERESTING ABOUT THIS IS
WHENEVER WE LOOK ON OUR PLANET
AND FIND LIQUID WATER, WE FIND
LIFE.
NOW, WE SEE ICE ON THESE TWO
BODIES.
IF THEY DO, IN FACT, HAVE MOLTEN
CORES AND THERE IS GEOLOGIC
ACTIVITY, COULD THERE BE
UNDERGROUND LIQUID AQUIFERS?
MAYBE.
THE SCIENTISTS WON'T GO THAT
FAR, DON'T HAVE THE DATA TO
PROVE IT BURKS OPENS UP THE
IMAGINATION, COULD THERE BE
MICROSCOPIC BLUE TONIANS OUT
THERE?
WHO KNOWS.
>> Woodruff: HOW MUCH MORE CAN
THEY TELL ABOUT WHAT'S IN AND ON
PLUTO FROM THE SPACECRAFT THAT
IS STILL HOW FAR AWAY FROM THE
DWARF PLANET?
>> WELL, IT WHIZZED BY SOMEWHERE
BETWEEN 20 AND 40 TIMES FASTER
THAN A SPEEDING BULLET ON ITS
WAY WAY PAST PLUTO, ALREADY.
IT WAS A LITTLE LESS THAN
8,000 FEET ABOVE THE SURFACE AND
TOOK AS MANY PICTURES AND DATA
AS IT COULD.
IT SHUT DOWN COMMUNICATIONS WITH
EARTH, MAKING SCIENTISTS TO HAVE
TO SWEAT IT OUT AS IT DID ITS
WORK.
NOW IT'S SENDING BACK ITS DATA
AT THE WHOPPING RATE OF 2400
BAUD MODEMS -- HALF THAT, 1,000
BAUD, 1 KILO BIT PER SECOND.
SO IT WILL TAKE A WHILE TO GET
THE DATA IN BUT IT'S FILLED WITH
SPECTROMETERS THAT'S FILLED WITH
INFRARED AND DIFFERENT ASPECTS
OF THE SPECTRUM TO FLUSH OUT
WHAT'S GOING ON IN THE
ATMOSPHERE AND THE SURFACE OF
PLUTO AND SHARON AS WELL.
THIS DATA ALONG WITH THE
INFORMATION ABOUT THE AMOUNT OF
DUST IN THE ATMOSPHERE AND THE
VISUAL IMAGES AS WELL AS
INFRARED IMAGES WILL GIVE THEM A
REAL SENSE OF WHAT PLUTO IS MADE
OF.
YOU HAVE TO THINK ABOUT THE
KUIPER BELT AS BEING THE DEEP
FREEZE WITH ALL THE INGREDIENTS
OF WHAT MAKES US IN OUR SOLAR
SYSTEM BE WHAT WE ARE.
SO IF YOU WANT TO SEE WHAT WE'RE
MADE OF, GO TO THE DEEP FREEZE,
THE KUIPER BELT AND TAKE A LOOK.
YOU WILL SEE WHAT WE'RE MADE OF.
SO THERE'S A REAL CONNECTION TO
HOW OUR PLANET EVOLVED.
>> Woodruff: I GUESS THERE IS
BEEN A LOT OF CONVERSATION ABOUT
THE HEART-SHAPED AREA ON PLUTO.
WHAT'S THAT ABOUT?
>> WE DON'T KNOW.
INTERESTINGLY, FOR A PLANET THAT
HAS MORE FEATURES THAN
RETHOUGHT, THIS HEART-SHAPED
AREA WHICH APPEARS TO BE LIKE A
VALENTINE IS RELATIVELY
FEATURELESS.
WHAT IS IT?
WE DON'T KNOW.
IT'S NAMED FOR THE FOUNDER WHOSE
ASHES ARE ON BOARD THE NEW
HORIZON SPACECRAFT AND IT WAS
NAMED FOR HIM BY THE SCIENTISTS.
THEY WILL BE LOOKING AT THE
EDGES WHERE THE LIGHTER AREA
MEETS THE DARKER SO THEY CAN
FIGURE OUT WHAT'S GOING ON.
>> Woodruff: DARE I ASK YOU
ABOUT THAT POINT.
THIS IS SOME CONVERSATION ABOUT
WHETHER PLUTO WILL BE
RECONSIDERED AND MAYBE IT WILL
BE A PLANET AFTER ALL.
IS THAT SUBTLE THAT IT'S NOT
ONE?
>> YOU KNOW, IF YOU ASK THE
SCIENTISTS, THEY HAVE THEIR
RULES AND THEY'LL TELL YOU PLUTO
IS NOT A PLANET IN THE CLASSIC
SENSE BECAUSE IF YOU MADE PLUTO
A PLANET, THERE IS DOZENS OF
OTHER OBJECTS LIKE IT IN THE
KUIPER BELT, SO YO YOU COULD GON
AND ON.
WE HAVE TO DRAW THE LINE
SOMEWHERE.
I SAY PLUTO SHOULD BE
GRANDFATHERED IN BECAUSE WE ALL
LOVE IT.
NUMBER TWO, IT'S THE ONLY BINARY
SYSTEM IN OUR SOLAR SYSTEM, SO
SHOULD GET A SPECIAL EXEMPTION.
I SAY PLUTO GETS GRANDFATHERED
IN AND THAT'S THE END OF IT.
BUT IF YOU'RE TALKING TO NEIL
TYSON OR MIKE BROWN AT CALTECH,
THEY GET THEIR SCIENTIFIC
DOWNDROP WHEN I SAY THAT.
>> Woodruff: NO ONE WE'D LIKE
TO LOOK AT THE KUIPER BET WITH
THAN MILES O'BRIEN.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN WATCH MUCH
MORE ABOUT THIS MISSION ON NOVA
TONIGHT.
"CHASING PLUTO" AIRS LATER THIS
EVENING ON MOST PBS STATIONS.
>> Ifill: WE RETURN NOW TO THE
2016 CAMPAIGN, AND OUR
CONTINUING CONVERSATIONS WITH
THE STILL EXPANDING UNIVERSE OF
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES.
THAT INCLUDES SENATOR TED CRUZ
OF TEXAS, WHO JUMPED IN THE RACE
FIRST, AND IS NOW AMONG ITS TOP
REPUBLICAN MONEY RAISERS.
HE'S THE AUTHOR OF A NEW MEMOIR
"A TIME FOR TRUTH."
AND HE'S "RUNNING."
I SAT DOWN WITH HIM EARLIER
TODAY.
MR. SENATOR, THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU, DPEN, GOOD TO BE
U.TH YO
>> Ifill: YOU WROTE IN YOUR
BOOK YOU WANT TO PAINT IN BOLD
COLORS.
THAT'S THE KIND OF PRESIDENCY
YOU IMAGINE, THE KIND OF
WASHINGTON YOU IMAGINE.
HAS THAT WORKED FOR YOU IN THE
SENATE?
AND HOW WOULD IT WORK AS
PRESIDENT?
>> WELL, AS YOU KNOW, THAT'S A
REFERENCE TO WHAT RONALD REAGAN
EXPLAINED IN TERMS OF, NUMBER
ONE, HOW WE WIN BUT, NUMBER TWO,
HOW WE TURN THE COUNTRY AROUND.
HE SAID WE HAVE TO PAINT IN BOLD
COLORS AND NOT PALE PASTELS, AND
I THINK THAT IS CLEARLY NEEDED.
PEOPLE ARE TIRED OF POLITICIANS
WHO SAY ONE THING AND DO
ANOTHER, AND WHAT I'VE TRIED TO
DO IN THE SENATE HAS REALLY BEEN
VERY SIMPLE.
IT'S BEEN TWO THINGS -- TELL THE
TRUTH AND DO WHAT I SAID I WOULD
DO.
>> Ifill: YOU ARE NOT KNOWN AS
AN ACCOMMODATIONIST.
IN FACT, YOU SAY AT EVERY
OPPORTUNITY, ALMOST EVERYBODY
ELSE IN WASHINGTON IS.
YOU DESCRIBE THE WASHINGTON
CARTEL.
DOES THAT INCLUDE RAND PAUL AND
MITCH MCCONNELL WHO COME IN FOR
CRITICISM IN THE BOOK?
>> YOU SAY ACCOMMODATIONIST.
ONE OF THE AREAS THAT GETS
REPEATED IN THE MEDIA IS
UNCOMPROMISE.
EVERY CONSERVATIVE LIKES TO BE
DARK CAY CHIEWRD AS YOU WILL
NEVER COMPROMISE.
I NEVER SAID THAT.
THE DAY I WAS I ELECTED, I SAID
I WILL HAPPILY COMPROMISE WITH
ANYBODY, I JOKED I'LL COMPROMISE
WITH MARTIANS IF THEY'RE WILLING
TO SHRINK THE SIZE AND POWER OF
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT, IF
THEY'RE WILLING TO PROMOTE
ECONOMIC GROWTH, IF THEY'RE
WILLING TO EXPAND INDIVIDUAL
LIBERTY.
WHAT WASHINGTON GETS WRONG FAR
TOO OFTEN IS THAT TOO MANY
PEOPLE COMPROMISE GOING
BACKWARDS.
THEY COMPROMISE IN A WAY THAT'S
WORSE THAN STATUS QUO, THAT DIGS
THE HOLE DEEPER, THAT MAKES IT
WORSE.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT
COMPROMISE IN A BROADER SENSE.
YESTERDAY THERE WAS AN IRAN
NUCLEAR DEAL CUT.
SCOTT WALKER ONE OF YOUR
COMPETITORS YOU WELCOME TO THE
RACE SAID THE FIRST THING HE
WOULD DO AS MANY IS ROLL THAT
BACK.
WHAT'S THE FIRST THING YOU WOULD
DO AS PRESIDENT?
>> THIS DEAL IS A CATASTROPHIC
DEAL, AN HISTORIC MISTAKE AND
ENDANGERS UNITED STATES NATIONAL
SECURITY AND THE LIVES OF
MILLIONS OF AMERICANS AND
MILLIONS OF OUR ALLIES, SO ANY
PRESIDENT WORTH HIS SALT SHOULD
REPUDIATE THIS DEAL IN THE VERY
FIRST DAYS OF HIS OR HER
PRESIDENCY.
I DON'T THINK IT IS A REASONABLE
MIDDLE GROUND TO DO AS THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION IS TRYING TO DO
TO ALLOW THEM, IN FACT, TO
ACCELERATE IRAN'S DEVELOPING
NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
THIS IS A DEAL THAT IS
PROFOUNDLY DANGEROUS TO OUR
NATIONAL SECURITY.
>> Ifill: I WOULD LIKE TO
BRING YOU BACK TO 2016 FOR A
MOMENT.
YOU WERE ON YOUR WAY TO NEW YORK
LATER TODAY TO SPEAK WITH DONALD
TRUMP, ONE OF YOUR COMPETITORS.
DO YOU THINK HE CAN BE
PRESIDENT?
>> LISTEN, I LIKE DONALD TRUMP,
I THINK HE'S BOLD, BRASH, I'M
GLAD HE'S IN THE RACE.
>> Ifill: DOES THAT MEAN YOU
AGREE WITH HIS POLICY
PRESCRIPTIONS?
>> WE NEED TO WAIT TO SEE WHAT
THEY ARE.
ONE OF THE ASPECTS OF POLITICS
IS YOU HAVE TO ACTUALLY LOOK AT
SOMEONE'S RECORD, NOT JUST WHAT
THEY SAY ON THE CAMPAIGN.
IT'S INTERESTING, THERE ARE A
LOT OF WHAT I CALL CAMPAIGN
CONSERVATIVES WHO, WHEN THEY
CAMPAIGN, BECOME CONSERVATIVES
AND YET, WHEN THEY'RE IN OFFICE,
THEY DON'T GOVERN AS
CONSERVATIVES.
>> Ifill: BUT I HAVE TO ASK
YOU, DONALD TRUMP A
CONSERVATIVE?
>> WELL, WE'LL GIVE HIM AN
OPPORTUNITY TO LAY OUT HIS
RECORD AND VIEWS, BUT WHAT I AM
NOT GOING TO DO IS JOIN WITH THE
WASHINGTON CARTEL AND SMACK HIM.
TRUMP IS FOCUSING ON ILLEGAL
IMMIGRATION AND NCTUARY CITIES
AND JUST ABOUT ALL THE OTHER
CANDIDATES HAVE VOCALLY AND
VIGOROUSLY EMBRACED AMNESTY FOR
YEARS AND ONE OF THE REASONS IS
THE WASHINGONT CARTEL SUPPORTS
AMNESTY.
DO YOU KNOW WHO'S LOSING?
THE OHIO STEELWORKER IS LOSING,
THE SINGLE MOM WAITING TABLES IS
LOSING.
THE LEGAL IMMIGRANT, LIKE MY DAD
WHO WASHED DISHES MAKING 50
CENTS AN HOUR, THEY'RE THE ONES
LOSING.
>> Ifill: YOU TALK A LOT ABOUT
YOUR DAD.
BOBBY JINDAL SAID THIS
HYPHENATED AMERICAN THING IS
NONSENSE, EVEN THOUGH MARCO
RUBIO AND YOU BOTH IDENTIFY THAT
WAY.
LET'S TALK ABOUT HERITAGE, HOW
IMPORTANT IS THAT IN THIS RACE?
>> WELL, LOOK, OUR HERITAGE IS
INTEGRAL TO WHO ALL OF US ARE.
WE ARE ALL A PRODUCT OF OUR
FAMILY JOURNEY.
IT'S ONE OF THE THINGS I TRY TO
DO IN THE BOOK, A TIME FOR
TRUTH, IS LAY OUT MY FAMILY
JOURNEY GOING BACK GENERATIONS,
GOING BACK TO MY GREAT
GRANDFATHER COMING TO CUBA,
DYING IN THE WORLDWIDE INFLUENZA
EPIDEMIC.
MY GRANDFATHER GROWING UP ON A
SUGAR CANE PLANTATION BASICALLY
IN INDENTURE SERVITUDE AND THEN
GOING, WHEN HE WAS A TEENAGER A
BUS CAME BY AND OFFERED EVERYONE
$5 AND A SANDWICH TO GO TO A
POLITICAL RALLY.
>> Ifill: AT WHAT POINT DO YOU
BECOME JUST AN AMERICAN AND NOT
A CUBAN-AMERICAN?
>> EVERY ONE OF US, WE'RE THE
PRODUCT -- ONE OF THE THINGS I
TRY TO DESCRIBE IN THE BOOK ARE
THE JOURNEYS.
Ifi>>ll: I DO WANT TO ASK YOU
A QUESTION ABOUT SOMETHING YOU
REFERENCE IN YOUR BOOK IN WHICH
YOU SAY ONE OF YOUR FAVORITE
COUNTRY WESTERN SONGS IS SOME OF
GOD'S GREATEST GIFTS ARE
UNANSWERED PRAYERS.
WHAT ARE YOURS.
>> ONE I DESCRIBE IS THE TIME I
SPENT ON THE PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN OF GEORGE W. BUSH.
I WAS IN MY 20s, ENJOYED
SUCCESS AND WAS TOO COCKY FOR MY
OWN GOOD AND BURNED SOME BRIDGES
ON MY CAMPAIGN.
I DESPERATE WANLYTED TO GO IN
THE ADMINISTRATION AND HAVE A
SEEN YOUR POSITION IN THE WHITE
HOUSE.
I WANTED TO BE THE YOUNG
IDEALISTIC STAFFER IN THE OVAL
OFFICE SAYING, MR. PRESIDENT, DO
THE RIGHT THING, STAND BY
PRINCIPLE.
YET THAT DIDN'T HAPPEN AND IT
WAS MY FAULT.
I HAD BURNED THE BRIDGES.
>> Ifill: WHAT LESSONS HAVE
YOU LEARNED ABOUT BURNING
BRIDGES SINCE THEN.
>> WHEN I REFERENCED THE COUNTRY
WESTERN SONG IT'S BECAUSE, IN
HINDSIGHT, MY WIFE HEIDI SAYS
THAT EXPERIENCE, SHE THINKS,
CHANGED MY PERSONALITY IN A VERY
REAL SENSE, THAT I NEEDED TO GET
MY TEETH KICKED IN, THAT I
NEEDED TO LEARN HUMILITY
VOLUNTARILY OR INVOLUNTARILY AS
IS USUALLY THE CASE.
AND THE POINT I MAKE IS I HAD
GOTTEN WHAT MY HOPES AND DREAMS
WERE AT THAT POINT, IF I HAD
GOTTEN THATENI SOR POSITION,
THERE'S NO CHANCE I WOULD BE
SERVING IN THE SENATE RIGHT NOW.
IF I HAD GONE TO THE WHITE
HOUSE, IT WOULD HAVE DONE WHAT
IT DOES TO SO MANY OTHER YOUNG
STAFFERS, THEY BECOME CONVINCED
THEY'RE TERRIBLY, TERRIBLY
IMPORTANT.
>> Ifill: BUT NOW YOU'RE
READY?
>> YES, AND I'LL TELL YOU, THE
REASON I'M RUNNING, THIS COUNTRY
IS IN CRISIS.
GROWING UP IN OUR HOUSE, THERE
WAS ALWAYS AN URGENCY OF
POLITICS.
IT WASN'T PICK UP THE NEWSPAPER,
TURN ON THE "NewsHour", OH,
THAT'S INTERESTING, THAT'S
WHAT'S HAPPENING.
IT WAS HAVING PRESENCE
APPROXIMATELIED MEN AND WOMEN IN
OFFICE IS HOW YOU SAVE YOURSELF
FROM TYRANNY.
IT WAS AN APPRECIATION.
I REMEMBER WHEN I WAS 9 AND 10
YEARS OLD CHEERING THE RONALD
REAGAN CAMPAIGN, WATCHING THE
DEBATES AS A KID AND IT WAS
ABOUT CAN WE GET BACK TO
PRINCIPLES OF LIBERTY THAT
ENABLE PEOPLE LIKE MY DAD TO
START WITH NOTHING AND ACHIEVE
ANYTHING, AND I THINK WE'RE AT A
SIMILAR CRISIS POINT.
THE OBAMA-CLINTON FOREIGN POLICY
IS A MANIFEST DISASTER.
THE WORLD IS LITERALLY ON FIRE.
>> Ifill: AND YOU'RE THE MAN
TO PUT OUT THE FIRE?
>> THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE THE
ONLY FORCE STRONG MUS ENOUGH TOT
OUT THE FIRE.
THE BIGGEST DIVIDE WE HAVE
POLITICALLY IS NOT BETWEENROOMS
AND DEMOCRATS, IT'S BETWEEN
CAREER POLITICIANS IN WASHINGTON
IN BOTH PARTIES AND THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
>> Ifill: WE ARE GOING TO
WATCH THIS DEBATE PLAY OUT ALL
YEAR LONG AND PART OF NEXT YEAR
AS WELL.
SENATOR TED CRUZ OF TEX, THASANK
YOU FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: IN GREECE TODAY,
PROTESTERS CLASHED WITH POLICE
AS THE PRIME MINISTER STRUGGLED
TO GET PARLIAMENT TO APPROVE THE
FINANCIAL BAIL-OUT DEAL HE
NEGOTIATED WITH HIS COUNTRY'S
CREDITORS.
THE DEAL CONTAINS AUSTERITY
MEASURES THAT WOULD HIT GREEK
CONSUMERS HARD.
PBS NEWSHOUR SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT MALCOLM BRABANT
PORTRES FROM ATHENS.
>> Reporter: ALL DAY, THEY
MARCHED TO THE GREEK PARLIAMENT-
- CONDEMNING THE AUSTERITY BILL
WITH ITS TAX HIKES AND PUBLIC
PENSION CHANGES.
>> THE GREEK PEOPLE HAVE
EXPRESSED THEMSELVES THROUGH THE
BALLOT BOX TWICE.
THAT THEY REJECT AUSTERITY.
AND DESPITE THAT WE'RE GETTING
TH WOREST PACKAGE WE'VE HAD OVER
THE PAST FIVE YEARS.
>> Reporter: AND AS EVENING
FELL, THE TROUBLE BEGAN: YOUTHS
THROWING MOLOTOV COCKTAILS, AND
RIOT POLICE FIRING BACK WITH
TEAR GAS.
THEIR GOAL: TO STOP THE DEAL
THAT PRIME MINISTER ALEXIS
TSIPRAS STRUCK MONDAY WITH
GREECE'S CREDITORS-- IN A BID TO
EARN A NEW BAILOUT AND STAY IN
THE EUROZONE.
EVEN TSIPRAS CRITICIZED THE
AGREEMENT ON GREEK TELEVISION
LAST NIGHT.
LAST NIGHT. >> (
translated): I AM
TELLING
>> (translated): I AM
TELLING YOU RIGHT NOW.
YOU RIGHT NOW.
IT IS MY RESPONSIBILITY THAT I
SIGNED A TEXT I DO NOT BELIEVE
IN.
HOWEVER, I AM OBLIGED TO
IMPLEMENT THIS TEXT.
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW I MUST
GUARANTEE AT LEAST THAT THE
COUNTRY AND SOCIAL GROUPS SHALL
NOT FACE DESTRUCTION.
>> Reporter: BUT IN PARLIAMENT
TODAY, THE LEFTIST LEADER FACED
THE STIFFEST OPPOSITION FROM
MEMBERS OF HIS OWN SYRIZA PARTY.
>> (translated): THERE
IS NO
IS NO DOUBT THAT THERE IS NO WAY
FOR
DOUBT THAT THERE IS NO WAY FOR
ME TO SAY YES ON A DESPICABLE
AGREEMENT WHICH WILL DRIVE MORE
GREEK PEOPLE TO POVERTY AND WILL
DESTROY THE DEVELOPMENT AND
SOCIAL FABRIC OF THE COUNTRY,
WHATEVER IS LEFT OF IT FROM THE
LAST FIVE YEARS.
>> Reporter: AT LEAST TWO
MEMBERS OF THE GOVERNMENT
RESIGNED, RATHER THAN BACK THE
BAILOUT DEAL.
THAT LEFT TSIPRAS RELYING ON
SUPPORT FROM OPPOSITION PARTIES
AND EVEN SOME OF THEM STRONGLY
OPPOSED THE NEW ECONOMIC
MEASURES.
GREECE'S FINANCE MINISTER TRIED
TO WIN OVER DOUBTERS TODAY,
UNDERLINING THE POTENTIAL
BENEFITS TO GREECE.
BENEFITS TO GREECE. >> (
translated): THIS IS A
>> (translated): THIS
IS A TOUGH AGREEMENT.
TOUGH AGREEMENT.
THIS IS AN AGREEMENT WHICH ONLY
TIME WILL SHOW WHETHER IT'S
ECONOMICALLY VIABLE.
THERE ARE CONCERNS ABOUT
RECESSION, THERE ARE CONCERNS,
BUT UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS, IF
THE COMBINATION OF RECESSIONARY
AND NON-RECESSIONARY MEASURES
MAY FINALLY LEAD TO GROWTH.
>> Reporter: ANY INCENTIVE THE
GREEKS HAVE TO FULLY IMPLEMENT
THE AUSTERITY MEASURES IMPOSED
BY EUROPE HAVE BEEN COMPLETELY
UNDERMINED BY A REPORT FROM THE
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND.
IT SAYS THAT GREECE'S DEBT IS
UNSUSTAINABLE.
THE COUNTRY MAY HAVE TO TAKE A
30 YEAR BREAK BEFORE MAKING ANY
REPAYMENTS.
AND THE CREDITORS MAY HAVE TO
TAKE A HAIRCUT.
THIS IS AN ANALYSIS WITH WHICH
GERMANY-- EUROPE'S BIGGEST
PLAYER-- TOTALLY DISAGREES.
MOREOVER, SOME IN GREECE SAY
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE STABILITY OF
TSIPRAS' GOVERNMENT MAY DELAY
ANY BAILOUT FUNDS.
NIKOS KOSTANDAROS IS THE EDITOR
OF "KATHIMERINI," GREECE'S
BIGGEST NEWSPAPER.
>> IF WE GO INTO A PERIOD OF
GREAT POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY, I
THINK THAT THE EUROPEAN MONEY
WILL HAVE TO HOLD OFF TO SEE
WHAT'S HAPPENING, WHO WILL OWN
THE PROGRAM AND WHO WILL RUN THE
REFORMS AND THE AUSTERITY THAT
NEEDS TO BE CARRIED OUT.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, THE
GREEK PEOPLE WERE LEFT TODAY TO
COPE WITH A 24-HOUR STRIKE THAT
CRIPPLED PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
AND EVEN SHUT DOWN PHARMACIES.
AND, GREECE'S BANKS STAYED
CLOSED AND REMAIN SO THROUGH
TOMORROW.
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M
MALCOLM BRABANT IN ATHENS.
>> Ifill: THE WARS IN THE CONGO
ARE NOW OVER AND THE COUNTRY IS
REBUILDING.
FOR THE VICTIMS OF SEXUAL
VIOLENCE THAT MEANS MEDICAL AND
PSYCHOLOGICAL TREATMENT.
FOR THE PERPETRATORS OF THAT
VIOLENCE, IT IS PROSECUTION.
PBS NEWSHOUR SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT JONATHAN SILVERS
BRINGS A STORY OF BOTH FROM THE
EASTERN CONGO CITY OF BUKAVU.
>> BUKABU IS SLOWLY EMERGING
FROM A CONFLICT THAT SPANNED TWO
DECADES AND SPARED NO ONE.
ROUGHLY HALF THE PEOPLE ENDURED
THE VIOLENT DEATH OF A FAMILY
MEMBER.
80% HAVE BEEN FORCED TO FLEE
THEIR HOME AT LEAST ONCE.
WITH THE ECONOMY SHATTERED AND
BASIC SUPPLIES SCARCE, SURVIVAL
IS A MATTER OF IMPROVISATION.
CONFLICT HAS LEFT COUNTLESS
PLACES AROUND THE WORLD IN A
SIMILAR CONDITION.
WHAT MAKES THE TOWN EXTREME IS
THE SEXUAL VIOLENCE THE CONFLICT
UNLISHED ACCORDING TO THE
MEDICAL STAFF HERE AT THE
HOSPITAL.
>> WHAT IS TYPICAL?
RAPE IS NOW TYPICAL.
IT WASN'T PRESENT IN FORMER
REBEL YUNS.
NOW THERE IS INDIVIDUAL RAPE,
MASS RAPE, IN CHURCHES, OF BOYS,
OF ENTIRE FAMILIES.
THIS IS ALL VERY NEW.
>> THE DOCTOR IS DIRECTOR OF A
SEXUAL VIOLENCE UNIT AT THE
HOSPITAL.
SHE ESTMATES OVER ONE-THIRD OF
THE GIRLS IN THE REGION HAVE
BEEN RAPED, MANY BRUTALLY AND ON
MULTIPLE OCCASIONS.
>> WHY IS SHE BLEEDING?
SOMETHING MUST HAVE HAPPENED.
>> NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS
PROVIDED THE HOSPITAL WITH
EQUIPMENT THAT EXPEDITES
DIAGNOSIS, BUT DEMAND FOR
EMERGENCY CARE FAR EXCEEDS THE
HOSPITAL'S LIMITED RESOURCES.
FOR EVERY WOMAN TAKEN IN,
ANOTHER IS TURNED AWAY.
AMONG POSTOPERATIVE PATIENTS ON
THE MORNING WE ARRIVED, A
4-YEAR-OLD GIRL.
>> THIS GIRL WAS RAPED ABOUT TWO
AND A HALF MONTHS AGO AND SHE
WAS VERY MALNOURISHED.
SHE WAS TOTALLY DAMAGED IN THE
PRIVATE PART.
SO WE HAD TO WAIT TWO MONTHS AND
SHE HAD SURGERY ABOUT TWO WEEKS
AGO, WHICH WAS SUCCESSFUL.
SHE'S BASICALLY BODILY MENDED
NOW, BUT WHO KNOWS WHAT WILL
HAPPEN IN THE FUTURE WITH HER.
>> THE HOSPITAL TREATED ROUGHLY
30 YOUNG CHILDREN IN SIMILAR
CONDITION IN THE SPACE OF FOUR
MONTHS.
ALL CAME FROM A NEARBY VILLAGE.
IN ADDITION TO TREATING THEIR
PATIENTS' MEDICAL NEEDS,
HOSPITAL STAFF ARE NOW GATHERING
FORENSIC EVIDENCE IN THE HOPE
THAT IT MAY ONE DAY BE USED TO
IDENTIFY AND PROSECUTE
PERPETRATORS.
>> DESPITE OUR EFFORTS, THERE
ARE NO SOLUTIONS.
NOTHING IS QUICK.
WHEN GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS SEE
WHAT WE SEE AND FAIL TO REACT,
IT'S REVOLTING.
YOU FEEL LIKE TAKING THEM BY THE
THROAT AND SHAKING THEM.
WHEN THINGS LIKE THIS GO ON, IT
MEANS WE ARE NO LONGER A SOCIETY
BECAUSE THE SOCIETY IS ABOUT
HUMANITY, AND WHEN WE LOSE OUR
HUMANITY, WE ARE NO LONGER A
FUNCTIONING SOCIETY.
>> WITH NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
LARGELY DYSFUNCTIONAL, LOCAL
AUTHORITIES ARE TRYING TO
RESPOND TO CONFLICT-RELATED
VIOLENCE AND ABUSES OF HUMAN
RIGHTS.
THE CONGO POLICE DEPARTMENT IS
MAKING AN EFFORT TO TRAIN
OFFICERS IN MODERN CRIME SCENE
TECHNIQUES.
THAT TRAINING IS STARTING TO PAY
OFF.
POLICE CAPTURED THIS YOUNG MAN
IN THE MIDST OF A ROBBERY.
UPON ARRIVAL AT THE STATION
HOUSE, THEY DISCOVERED THAT HE'S
A FORMER SOLDIER SUSPECTED OF
MULTIPLE RAPES AND MURDERS.
THE OVERWHELMING MAJORITY OF
PERPETRATORS OF SEXUAL VIOLENCE
ARE SOLDIERS AND PARAMILITARIES.
THEIR NERVOUS MAKE THEM HARD TO
HUNT DOWN AND OFTEN PROTECTED BY
COMMANDERS ACCORDING TO POLICE
COMMISSIONER.
>> IN TIMES OF WAR, THE
PERPETRATORS ARE MOSTLY ARMED
SOLDIERS.
IN TIMES OF PEACE, THE MAJORITY
OF PERPETRATORS, SOME 80%, ARE
CIVILIANS, BUT THEY'RE ALWAYS
THE SAME PEOPLE, BETWEEN 17 AND
40, JOBLESS, POORLY EDUCATED.
IN WAR THEY GET RECRUITED TO
TERRORIZE WITH WEAPONS.
LATER THEY CONTINUE TO TERRORIZE
DURING THE POST-WAR DISORDER.
>> WHILE THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY HAS NOT INTERVENED IN
SEXUAL VIOLENCE HERE, IT HAS
STRONGLY CONDEMNED THE CRISIS.
IN RESPONSE, THE D.R.C.'S
MILITARY HAS RECENTLY BEGUN
CONVENING TRIBUNALS OF SOLDIERS
CHARGED WITH RAPE AND SEXUAL
SLAVERY.
>> FEW SURVIVORS DARE TO COME
FORWARD TO SPEAK ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED TO THEM.
THE STIGMA IS UNBELIEVABLE IN
THEIR COMMUNITY.
THEY'RE REJECTED BY THEIR
FAMILIES, THEIR HUSBANDS, THEIR
PARENTS, THEIR CHILDREN, THEY
LOSE THEIR LIVELIHOOD, THEY LOSE
ANY SENSE OF PLACE IN THEIR
COMMUNITY.
SO SPEAKING OUT ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED TO THEM COMES AT AN
ENORMOUS COST TO THEM.
>> TERREN EXAMS SEXUAL VIOLENCE
IN SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA.
SHE TRAVELED TO BUKABU TO
MONITOR A TRIAL OF SOLDIERS
CHARGED WITH RAPE AND SEXUAL
SLAVERY.
LAST YEAR OVER 150 SOLDIERS AND
OFFICERS WERE TRIED IN MILITARY
OPERATIONAL COURTS LIKE THIS
ONE.
>> WHAT WE FOUND OVER TIME IS
THAT EVEN THOSE SURVIVORS WHO
DARE TO COME FORWARD OFTEN FAIL
AT THE LOCAL LEVEL BECAUSE OF
INADEQUATE EVIDENCE SUPPORTING
THEIR ALLEGATIONS.
>> ONE OF THE CASES THAT SHE IS
MONITORING INVOLVE THE SEXUAL
ENSLAVEMENT OF AN AD ADOLESCENT
GIRL BY A SOLDIER.
THE GIRL IS MENTALLY IMPAIRED.
IN TRIAL HER IDENTITY WAS
CONCEALED BY A HEAD SCARF AND
SUNGLASSES.
MINUTES AFTER THE SESSION BEGAN,
THE MILITARY JUDGES ABANDONED
THE RULES AND ORDERED THE GIRL
TO REMOVE THE HEAD COVERING AND
CONFRONT HER OPPRESSOR IN COURT.
THE PROSECUTOR OBJECTED SAYING
THE JUDGE WAS VIOLATING RULES,
SHAMING THE VICTIM AND PUTTING
HER AT RISK OF RETALIATORY
VIOLENCE.
THE JUDGE OVERRULED THE
OBJECTION AND THE GIRL COMPLIED.
WE TURNED OFF OUR CAMERAS TO
PROTECT HER IDENTITY.
THE JUDGES HAVE YET TO RULE ON
THE CASE.
>> THIS IS A TACTIC THAT IS NOT
UNCOMMON IN THE DEMOCRATI DEMOCC
REPUBLIC OF CONGO AND THERE IS
AN OUTCRY AMONG SO MANY PEOPLE
WE WORK WITH WHO ARE JUST
DESPERATE TO FIND EFFECTIVE
MECHANISMS TO HOLD AT LEAST SOME
OF THOSE RESPONSIBLE TO ACCOUNT
FOR A FORMER JUDICIAL PROCESS.
>> DESPITE THE OBSTACLES, THE
POLICE COMMISSIONER NOTICED AN
INCREASE IN WOMEN SEEKING
ASSISTCE AANT THE BUKABU POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
THEY'VE BEEN ENCOURAGED BY
RECENT LAWS AGAINST GENDER-BASED
VIOLENCE ENACTED BY THE
GOVERNMENT BUT THE COURTS OFTEN
IMPOSE FEES ON VICTIMS, OFTEN
TOO YOUNG TO PAY, AND CAN'T
PROMISE THEY WILL INVESTIGATE.
HERE IS 30 A MONTH, NO
TRANSPORTATION, LITTLE RESOURCES
AND NO SUPPORT FROM THE
JUDICIARY.
>> THERE ARE SO MANY CHALLENGES
TO A.B.M. GIRLS.
ABOVE ALL WE NEED A VAST NUMBER
OF PROFESSIONAL INVESTIGATORS
HERE WITH PROPER EQUIPMENT.
OTHERWISE, CONDITIONS WILL
REMAIN JUST AS THEY ARE.
>> FOR THE PBS "NewsHour",
JONATHAN SILVERS IN BU BUKABU,
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
OUR "NEWSHOUR SHARES" OF THE
DAY, SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR
EYE WHICH MIGHT BE OF INTEREST
TO YOU, TOO.
BEACHGOERS IN THE CAPE COD TOWN
OF CHATHAM HAD A RARE ON-LAND
ENCOUNTER WITH A GREAT WHITE
SHARK MONDAY.
THE SEVEN-FOOT-LONG SHARK HAD
BEEN CHASING SEAGULLS AND THEN
WAS BEACHED ON SHORE WHEN THE
TIDE WENT OUT.
IPHONE VIDEO OF WHAT HAPPENED
NEXT HAS DRAWN MORE THAN TWO
MILLION VIEWS ON YOUTUBE.
IT SHOWS CHATHAM HARBORMASTER
STUART SMITH POURING BUCKETS OF
WATER OVER THE SHARK'S GILLS TO
KEEP IT ALIVE UNTIL HELP
ARRIVED.
SMITH AND A COLLEAGUE WERE ABLE
TO TIE A ROPE AROUND THE AILING
ANIMAL AND TOW IT BACK INTO THE
WATER.
A SECOND VIDEO POSTED YESTERDAY
SHOWS WHAT HAPPENED AFTER
RESCUERS RESUSCITATED THE SHARK
AND PULLED IT OUT TO DEEPER
WATER, WHERE THEY WAITED TO SEE
IF IT WOULD REGAIN STRENGTH.
>> OH, LOOK AT HIM.
>> Woodruff: THE SHARK SWAM AWAY
ABOUT THREE HOURS AFTER THE
RESCUE EFFORT STARTED.
>> Ifill: MUST BE SUMMER,
SHARKS.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE: WHEN IT
COMES TO CELL PHONE USE, YOU'VE
HEARD OF DISTRACTED DRIVING, BUT
WHAT ABOUT DISTRACTED OPERATING?
THERE AREN'T ANY FEDERAL
REGULATIONS THAT RESTRICT CELL
PHONES IN THE OPERATING ROOM.
THAT'S WHY PHYSICIANS AND
MEDICAL GROUPS ARE CALLING FOR
CLEAR RULES.
READ MORE ABOUT DOCTORS'-- AND
PATIENTS'-- CONCERNS, ON OUR
HOME PAGE.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Woodruff: TONIGHT ON CHARLIE
ROSE: FORMER MIDEAST ENVOY
DENNIS ROSS AND FORMER
UNDERSECRETARY OF STATE NICK
BURNS ON THE IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY: COULD A NEW TAX
HELP REDUCE THE EFFECTS OF
CLIMATE CHANGE?
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
JOIN US ONLINE AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.